---
title: x64dbg Plugin For Detection of Obfuscated Module Loading
published: true
---

So Valve Anti Cheat dynamically streams modules with some part of their running code. The `steamclient.dll` executes a method that partially loads code from the internet and executes it while running so that the user does not see the full Anti Cheat Library. 

In the context of loading modules and streaming parts of code over the internet we want to automate the location of modules that get loaded during runtime in Windows. 

We also in addition use the `ScyllaHide` plugin to circumvent popular mechanisms of detecting debuggers. 

# x64PE Injection

We take inspiration from x64dbg dev `mrexodia` and scan our registers to break when a ceratain condition is met. The idea was partially taken from http://lausiv.tech/posts/1 who discovered how modules are loaded during runtime in Valve Anti Cheat.

This plugin scans registers and loaded modules during trace execution. It only executes while in range of the selected module, otherwise it sets breakpoints to wait for execution to hit the certain location.
It also scans memory after calls to certain functions that can be specified in the options for executable headers and binary headers.

## 0 Finding Injection Points

It is important for the script to find valid mempages or executable pages during execution. Finding such executable pages can help discover new modules of the anti cheat as well as help while reversing. From the `x64dbg` source we get the following structures that could be of help 

```cpp
typedef struct
{
    MEMORY_BASIC_INFORMATION mbi;
    char info[MAX_MODULE_SIZE];
} MEMPAGE;

typedef struct
{
    int count;
    MEMPAGE* page;
} MEMMAP;

BRIDGE_IMPEXP bool DbgMemMap(MEMMAP* memmap);
```

With `count` we can iterate over all mempages or turn the mempages into a vector with the following function after first creating a new vector from them. 
In order for the plugin to be fast we need to only apply scanning after context of certain "loader" functinos has been hit like `LoadLibrary`, `LoadLibraryEx`, `CreateFileW`, `WriteFile` and `NtAllocateVirtualMemory`.  

```cpp
ListInfo b;
ListOf(MEMPAGE) mp = &b;
mp->count = mmap.count;
mp->data = mmap.page;
mp->size = mmap.count*sizeof(MEMPAGE);

BridgeList<MEMPAGE> blmp;
std::vector<MEMPAGE> vmp;
blmp.ToVector(mp, vmp);
```

The important thing is finding new mempages during runtime. If a new mempage is discovered we could assume that a new module was mapped to memory that might be important to us. We scan mapped memory regions for new headers and determine if they are relevant for us.

## 1 Build

For building the x86 plugin select the properties 
* `msbuild .\find-pe-inject.sln -property:Configuration=Debug -property:Platform=x86`
and for building the x64 plugin choose 
* `msbuild .\find-pe-inject.sln -property:Configuration=Debug -property:Platform=x64`.

You can link the plugin with `mklink` on Windows to create a soft link for development

## 2 Configuring the plugin

We're trying to read the following symbols during runtime, and set breakpoints for them. This is important for evaluating when certain modules are loaded to memory. 

`LoadLibrary LoadLibraryEx LoadLibrary LoadLibraryExA LoadLibraryExW LoadLibraryW CreateFileW WriteFile NtAllocateVirtualMemory`

## 2 Developing the plugin live

To develop the plugin without restarting x64dbg ever time you can use the Plugin Dev Helper and run the `PluginDevServer` as well as installing the `PluginDevHelperP` plugin and then building the plugin with a `PluinDevBuildTool.exe` in Visual Studio. 

The log output should look like this

```
1>------ Build started: Project: XmmYmm, Configuration: Release Win32 ------
1>plugin.cpp
1>PluginDevBuildTool: Failed to obtain exclusive access, requesting to unload XmmYmm.dp32
1>PluginDevBuildTool: Exclusive access to XmmYmm.dp32 obtained!
1>   Creating library C:\Projects\XmmYmm\bin\x32\XmmYmm.lib and object C:\Projects\XmmYmm\bin\x32\XmmYmm.exp
1>Generating code
1>Finished generating code
1>XmmYmm.vcxproj -> C:\Projects\XmmYmm\bin\x32\XmmYmm.dp32
1>PluginDevBuildTool: Requested reload of XmmYmm.dp32
========== Build: 1 succeeded, 0 failed, 0 up-to-date, 0 skipped ==========

```


# TODOS

- dump mz files to folder and checksum them
- write source path and classify them
- find executable pages after malloc that sets page attributes
- virtualprotect, virtualalloc that allocates as executable 
- code that is run is executable (probably)

- createfilemapping mprotect
- find w/x pages? 
- yes wx pages exist and look at them 
